# Push Factors

The challenges that detract from Hagerstown’s vitality are the pull factors. They can be mitigated to enhance the quality of life in the community. These factors include:

- Lack of strong industrial base – Dana Corporation leaving Hagerstown left the town without a strong industrial base. This has caused a number of residents to find employment in the surrounding communities. There is potential for development of a new industrial base of small businesses, local value added industries, and others that don’t have some of the problems of a single, large, auto industry employment base.
- Lack of available housing/age and maintenance of existing housing stock – There is not a lot of housing available for new residents and the housing stock is of the same relative size and style. The lack of housing and housing variety discourages new residents and new business. Much of the housing in the community is aging, and some is in need of maintenance or renovation. This is a deterrent to tourism, new residents, and new business and industry.
- Access to other cities – The close proximity of other communities is encouraging Hagerstown to become a bedroom community. This type of community lacks the tax base and other resources to provide for many of the community services that Hagerstown residents value. It also leads to traffic problems and sprawling development between the bedroom community and the employment base. Redeveloping a local economic base would allow more residents to work in the community and provide the tax base necessary to support a high level of community services.
- The Dana building/environmental problems – the Dana site is on a lengthy environmental clean up schedule due to the lack of regard for resources that was associated with previous decades and the rust belt industries. The site has potential for reuse if the environmental problems can be mitigated in a more timely fashion than the current schedule provides. New industrial sites should meet certain criteria or performance standards to reduce the potential for future environmental problems.
- Hagerstown’s aging population – While the older members of the community have been valuable lifelong assets to the community, there are problems associated with an aging population. Older residents are no longer contributing to the community’s economic base, in terms of employment and earned income taxes. Older residents also have a need for age appropriate housing and special help with home maintenance. There are also health care issues associated with older residents. Many are in need of more professional health care than is available in Hagerstown.
- Leapfrog and sprawling development – The development of subdivisions, housing lots, commercial and industrial developments that are not adjacent to other development in the community is land consumptive and burdens local infrastructure. The extra capacity spent on sprawling new development could be used for the upgrade of existing services to better serve development that is adjacent to other development. Also, since most newer residents work elsewhere, this begins to make Hagerstown more of a bedroom community, increasing traffic congestion, and reducing community character.
