# Pull Factors

The strong advantages on which Hagerstown can build a firm planning base are its pull factors. These factors include:

- Interstate development at the I-70 interchange – Although plans have been progressing slower than anticipated, development at the interstate interchanges could provide for a more sound tourism industry. There may be other benefits as well. However, this type of development frequently encourages sprawling development from communities out to the interchange development. It is also infrastructure intensive.
- Community character – Hagerstown has a truly unique and interesting small town character. It is attractive to residents and visitors alike. A number of downtown and community improvements could enhance this character so that the town’s full tourism potential can be recognized.
- Tourism – A tourism base already exists in Hagerstown with thousands of visitors each year coming to eat at Welliver’s and enjoy shopping at Abbott’s Candy and the local antique and craft shops. If combined into tour packages including visiting Amish farms, traditional homesteads, local museums, and other attractions of the county the tourism industry could provide a strong economic base for Hagerstown.
- Access to other cities – The convenient access to Richmond, New Castle, Muncie, Indianapolis, Dayton and other cities makes Hagerstown an ideal location for people to want to live. It also makes a good transhipment point for warehousing and other industries. There are problems associated with this level of access as well; these are discussed as push factors.
- Good community parks – Hagerstown has excellent community park facilities. These facilities are used and enjoyed primarily by community residents. Expanding the parks into a parks system and developing additional recreation opportunities will enhance the quality of life in Hagerstown.
- Amish population – while the Amish are new to the Hagerstown area, there already appears to be a growing relationship between the Amish and non-Amish communities. There is potential for tourism development, locally produced goods, and other activities involving the emerging Amish community.
- Little/no town debt – the town has been fortunate enough to avoid an accumulation of debt. This leaves the town in a stable financial position from which it can make decisions about the financing of new projects.
