# Quality of Life

What does **quality of life** mean for Hagerstown?  In a public meeting held on June 12, 2013, Hagerstown residents were asked just that.  The answer: quality of life means that all have access to education, safety, and recreation, and that we live in a clean and beautiful place.  Thus, in order to uphold the quality of life for all residents, the Comprehensive Plan sets out goals relating to Housing; Community Involvement; Parks, Recreation, & Cultural Resources; Elderly/Child Care; and Schools.

## Table of contents

- **Housing** - Much of the housing in Hagerstown consists of single-family homes rich in character. As such, future housing goals center on property maintenance as well as diversifying the types of available housing to accommodate a changing population.
- **Community Involvement** - Community involvement is an essential component of Hagerstown’s quality of life.  Goals regarding community involvement seek to encourage the ongoing volunteerism of Hagerstown residents and to provide opportunities for youth involvement. 
- **Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources** - Hagerstown provides its residents with excellent access to parks and recreation facilities.  Goals regarding parks, recreation, and other cultural resources such as the museum and library seek to make these facilities accessible to a larger number of residents, to increase the use of present park-goers, and to provide even more opportunities for cultural activities in and around Hagerstown.
- **Elderly/Child Care** - Hagerstown has a growing need for elderly care and child care services.  While some child care services are available in Hagerstown, more licensed facilities are needed.  The elderly also require more services, such as home visits by trained professionals and increased housing options.  (For more on elderly housing goals, see the Housing subsection.)
- **Schools** - The Nettle Creek School Corporation, consisting of Hagerstown Elementary and Hagerstown Jr./Sr. High School, services Hagerstown and the surrounding area.  Hagerstown’s schools are an integral part of the community, and their continued success is vital to the town’s growth.  By working together, town government officials and school board members can ensure that the Nettle Creek Schools continue to produce high-achieving, successful, motivated students.
