# Education

According to the 1990 U.S. Census, Hagerstown residents on average attained higher levels of education than the average Indiana resident. Over 80 percent of Hagerstown residents age 25 and older have at least a high school diploma and nearly half of these graduates have some kind of post secondary education. High school graduates account for less than 75 percent of all Indiana residents; therefore, Hagerstown has a significantly higher educational attainment level than the average Indiana resident. Wayne County had a much lower rate of high school graduates than both the Indiana averages and the Hagerstown averages. These educational attainment figures show that Hagerstown has a well-educated population which helps make the residents highly employable in higher quality jobs.

<div class="ph ph-chart">Educational Attainment</div>

The Nettle Creek School Corporation, which serves the residents of Hagerstown, ranks above state average in many areas, according to data provided by the Indiana Department to Education. Nettle Creek had a higher attendance rate (96.2 percent) and a higher graduation rate (91.0 percent) than Indiana averages during the 1996-97 school year. The school corporation also had a higher percentage of 12th graders taking the SAT in 1997 (60 percent compared to 52 percent for Indiana) and a lower rate of suspension and explusion in 1997 (15.6 percent compared to 29.0 percent in Indiana). All of the figures begin to give an indication of the high quality of schools available in Hagerstown.

One way to evaluate the performance of a particular school corporation is to examine the standardized test scores such as the ISTEP and the SAT obtained by that corporation’s students. Through the early 1990s, Nettle Creek’s average combined SAT score was usually below Indiana averages and always below United States averages. The greatest gap between the Nettle Creek and Indiana scores occurred during the 1992-1993 and 1993-1994 academic years when the average combined score dropped to 799, over 70 points lower than Indiana averages during those years. The following two academic years saw major increases in combined SAT scores in the Nettle Creek School Corporation. The increase in the 1995-1996 academic year does reflect changes in the SAT testing procedure, but Nettle Creek’s score, although slightly below national averages, did exceed state averages.

<div class="ph ph-chart">Percentage Above Indiana Academic Standards Based on 1997-98 ISTEP Scores</div>

The Indiana Department of Education sets a standard level of achievement for the Indiana Standardized Test of Educational Progress (ISTEP) for each grade level that participates in the testing. The 1997-1998 ISTEP results showed that Nettle Creek students placed above these Indiana academic standards overall. At least half, and in most cases well over half, of the students scored above the standards in all areas. Nettle Creek generally scored about the same as the average Indiana student. Indiana students were much stronger in English than in math and Nettle Creek amplified this trend by scoring slightly higher than the average Indiana student in English tests and slightly lower in math tests.

The most current enrollment figures projections released by the Indiana Department of Education show that the Nettle Creek School Corporation had 1265 students during the 1997-1998 academic year. The total enrollment increased slightly during the 1990s but is expected to decrease in the next five years. As the larger groups of students work their way through the higher grade levels, elementary enrollment is expected to decrease and secondary enrollment is projected to increase.

<div class="ph ph-chart">Enrollment Trends and Projections</div>